testing one two three testing one t3i
doing man
cool I'm coolin I just came back from a
kind of fake-ass religious ritual for
Confucius for Confucius Confucianism in
front of the Statue of Confucius here
and you know yeah one of the students
invited me and actually one of the
application I used to communicate with
the student just stopped working on my
phone which is kind of awkward but I
think young I guess I'm gonna try to
reinstall the app and see if that works
sorry most boring part of the story but
yeah you know I've got to admit all
these ancient societies were built on
animal sacrifice at these rituals and
when you take the animal sacrifice out
of it it's funny but there's just not
that much left to the ritual it's like
you know it's like bullfighting with a
mechanical bull so pretty much all you
got going on is putting flowers in front
of the statue you know yeah it's a
question man but this is actually the
first time your Confucianism was really
illegal under communism here and this is
the first year on campus they've
actually done a ritual in front of the
statute of Confucius so this is part of
the transition of China from communist
culture to fake-ass kung-fu movie
culture this is ongoing all around me
and although all the girls were dressed
up in you know fake historical outfits
the same style people wear in kung-fu
movies so that's that's the future China
big fan of the idea event I guess look
it's cool I'm flattered to be invited to
this kind of thing and like you know in
Chinese culture its kind of easy it's
easier to cope with because everything
is fake anyway so it's not like a
problem like back when I was doing First
Nations when I was doing Korean a
giveaway native people Canada like
sometimes I got invited to events
religious events you know rituals they
were doing and I said to them look if
I'm there it's not a real ritual like
you know if I'm there it'll be fake so
it shouldn't come you know and they were
really shocked at that because look my
way of respecting your religion is by
not you know
pretending to participate when I'm you
know when it's not my religion if it's
gonna be real you know I shouldn't be
there but yeah with this kind of thing
it's totally fake anyway so there's no
problem probably not what you want to
talk to you about but yeah it's night
that's why I'm wearing the suit I just
came from that religious ritual yeah
fair enough I'm not gonna chance to I
hear your opinion on either recent
banning of dirty rider on YouTube well
that the poem is now it's a banning and
it's a nun banning right so we only had
a couple days a couple days of him being
offline yeah he's back he's back up his
channel his channel is back on again now
she was only taking offline yeah his
main channel yeah yeah is relisted so
that does raise questions you know I
mean during rider lives about a lot of
things but he might be telling the truth
about this about this issue in terms of
his claim about how the channel got
blocked in the first place in contrast
an or vegans claim and nor vegan is
certainly capable of lying
I've seen him lie myself but uh yeah I
mean you know obviously I thought it was
a positive thing for for veganism and
for YouTube to see the the rules applied
in that case you know that the rules on
YouTube are applied very unevenly and
very unfairly and you know I'm an
example that my video about Ted car got
censored I had a video about Ted car
that was that was taken offline for
so-called bullying now was it was a
harsh criticism of Ted car but I was
really talking about the content of his
philosophy you know what he says about
diet and exercise and mostly about
career and education job aspera you know
he's into this philosophy of drop out of
school and don't try hard and I'm into
the philosophy of don't drop out of
school
try harder if you do drop out of school
you got a tight try ten times harder you
know what I mean nay I gotta try even
harder because you know I got no
education but you know so it was a you
know critique along those lines that got
taken down for bullying slash harassment
it's like well okay if me criticizing
criticizing Ted car on this stuff if
that is pulling for harassment what
about what durianrider does what about
you know all these example what about
what vegan cheetah did you know vegan
treat is now kind of past tense to you
know how
can this possibly be the same set of
rules for everyone yeah so that's it
from YouTube's perspective for the vegan
community for the future of eating as a
movement course tremendous a positive
thing if during Ryder got deleted who
knows if we'll live to see that day at
EDD cards ten cards from here I heard
he's like a huge womanizing piece of
[ __ ] dead car I think he only he says he
only ejaculates a couple times a year so
if you call that a womanizer I mean like
that's that's what he claims and I don't
know any men who boast about how few
times they ejaculate per year so so what
do you see how quickly he moved off that
subject you see how quickly he wondered
so that it's possible Ted car just eats
a lot of [ __ ] that's possible then but
otherwise he's getting less sex in a
year than you get in a weekend so you
know said that's you know if you think
he's a womanizing piece of [ __ ] right
that's not what I've heard and that's
not what he says about himself so you
know he's just like right now currently
apparently enjoying the broadcast cool
anyway so what what do you want oh sorry
did you wanna say more about about the
during writer thing there's not that
much more to say if you guys don't know
you know my court case is still ongoing
so in the middle of December I go back
to Chang line but I'm gonna have another
day in court no idea if anything's gonna
come of it and you know I mean I have I
have very low expectations of the the
Thai justice system at this point I'm
not expecting a lot of justice out of
the Thai justice system but if we got a
little bit that that'd be nice and you
know after that I'm going back to Canada
so if there are more court hearings
after I go back to Canada that'll be
really tough for me it'll probably be
impossible for me to ever come back to
court again after this so if the piece
is either dismissed or delayed if it
doesn't wrap up with this next day in
court in December probably from my
perspective that's the end of the case
because of like through like with that
well I mean you know you saw this kind
of domino effect that started with me
when I stood up to him and I was
starting to ask hard questions that's
even before he threatened me when I was
asking hard questions about his diet
advice for his exercise advice I was
asking her questions about freelee's
credentials before they got exposed that
she had actually lied about her
education and so on there were a lot of
lies I mean everything including your
straight-up lies about how many calories
you can eat well it's you know if some
of them were kind of boring lies of that
but there was a lot of lies a lot of
bullying there was a lot of lot of
darkness in what was going on with them
and they switched from you know early on
in my critique of them I used to give
them the the concession I used to say
look they didn't ask to be in a
leadership role they just came on camera
I wanted to present their kooky
lifestyle their eccentric lifestyle you
know they used to be against using
shampoo these to be against using
toilets they tell you to pee in a bucket
you can still find that stuff you
searched for it they used to be against
using soap they were against vaccines
they were against modern medical science
there was all this crazy crap
but up to a certain point they were just
a couple of eccentrics you know making
money out of diet books but also you
know presenting their lifestyle and I
used to say look I can't criticize them
too harshly because they don't claim to
be leaders in the peak movement and then
that switched that's what Mike my my
criticism of got way more harsh and
excoriating they started describing
themselves as quote the most effective
vegan act activists in the world and
they started pushing lifestyle activism
as the replacement for you know what
peda does you know not just as competing
with but as better that what else was
was going on in the vegan scene so I
started laying in and saying no it's not
but you know we see you asked me am i
SAS of the process what we've seen since
I stood up to durianrider
is a long slow process of people waking
up and one of the early dramatic ones
was vegan gains vegan gains went from
being during writers friend and
supporter to being as
enemy you know for durianrider doesn't
have anything in between like either
your 100% his friend I never said his
enemy but you know I like to give an
example that vegan gains doesn't care
much about politics he doesn't know much
about politics but he cares a lot about
health science so I remember just asking
him asking Richard Richard how could you
support this guy when he claimed to have
cured Crohn's disease like just as an
example
Crohn's disease if you guys don't know
is a very serious genuinely incurable
disease and you got this guy Durham
Ryder claiming cured that's exactly the
sort of thing vegan gains hates and that
he criticizes in other fitness youtubers
you know like if you make fake claims
about curing a disease it discredits
veganism you know like there are a lot
of bad impacts in that and you know
Richard really had nothing to say you
know so but in that same way whether
your thing was health information or
weight loss you know no matter which
angle you came at it from you know work
or street politics Street protests I
mean a guy like Joey Karp strong that's
really his whole life's blood is his
street protest his public outreach but
so there people came in from different
angles each of them in the space of a
year had to ask themselves why were they
making excuses for durianrider
and for sure me standing up to him my
criticizing him and then ultimately my
standing up to in court that that was
kind of a pinprick in the balloon where
after that the balloon just you know
kept kept losing air and the more during
Ryder defended himself the more lies he
told the more obvious it was to everyone
including people who are close personal
friends feds people were intimate in his
life you know they all had to face up to
the extent to which this guy was a liar
and a manipulator and a bully and in the
end that kind of thing but you know in
terms of the legal process so far the
legal process hasn't done anything
except given during Ryder another
opportunity to tell a bunch of lies and
then people saw that they were lives
people learned they were lies because
you know you know the court case was
real I wasn't lying what everything and
he was so it was just one more
opportunity for people to kind of wake
up and that's that's basically we've
seen that the only other thing I'd say
beyond that is you know fashions come
and go within veganism you've been in
this game for long enough to see
different fashions come and go like West
I would even say like DXE DX or DX e 1.0
when direct action ever was founded they
had a kind of style that a different
fashion of vegan acted and that changed
you know but in the same way also we've
just seen the end of that that fashion
that style that period of durianrider
and freely lifestyle activism we've seen
that die across the board so yeah that's
it though but but the core case itself
otherwise it's been an opportunity for
people to wake up people are gonna learn
when they want to learn and know sooner
and otherwise that doesn't say about it
okay so I heard you say something but
nor vegan but then just the audio signal
broke up of the sense so what with
scurvy if you can't get it across you
can type it in switcher what we don't
know is if that had any effect though
right because durianrider is selling a
different story about this being related
to somehow freely posting spam in his
account or something but if if Noor
vegans story were true or if it mattered
then why was his why was his channel
reinstated with no changes just a couple
days later right you know you know it's
it's possible more vegan is telling the
truth it's possible he thinks it's the
truth but it's not sure like it's
possible he had this meeting and then by
coincidence the you know the the channel
got briefly canceled but it wasn't
really related to the meeting when I
sent my legal documents to YouTube
corporation they basically responded by
saying they'd be willing to delete
particular videos that named me like if
I want to send them examples of videos
and timestamps they would delete those
videos but otherwise they weren't gonna
do anything with during writer and
that's contrary to my interest I don't
want to be in a situation where people
can't see both sides of the story you
know what I mean like it's not in my
interest legally or professionally or
morally to delete the evidence of what
the problem is you know like if there
are only videos on my channel
complaining about the problem but people
can't go and see durianrider denouncing
me this way then it's you know then it's
then it's it's hard to make progress in
that situation so
I didn't I didn't go further with that
but that is generally YouTube's attitude
towards this is that these problems only
exist in particular videos that contain
identifiable information and that's why
durianrider always uses stupid nicknames
for people so that he can harass and
bully and announce people and skate the
line of YouTube because it's it's not
using your legal name no I heard you was
going to but I haven't seen it yet so
somebody did tell me that I mean
obviously I could I could see it in the
next couple of hours but you know
because I heard he was going to that I
took a look at his video on durian
writers legacy and I mean Charles
Charles Marlow formerly known as we can
cheetah I just feel I mean he's it's
he's on empty he just had nothing to say
you know like I could do a video right
now on that topic on Terry miters legacy
or my legacy on any topic I could do a
video unscripted no prep that's better
than his material I really feel I mean
like in a sense his material was garbage
before booming YouTube YouTube is like
rap music you gotta have something to
say and then there's the question of
whether or not you say it well you know
that's that's the real question and like
I mean rap music it just heard the new
album from Action Bronson you know which
I thought was his tear was terrible I
think it's his worst worst project of
all time or worst project in many years
but like rabble from Action Bronson some
of the songs have a decent beat but it's
like fundamentally if this is just a rap
song about how happy you are to own an
expensive car it's going nowhere you
know so I'm just saying like you know
with YouTube this is a really spare
medium the rap music also is a spare
spare medium you know it's not like I
can distract you with special effects or
a great plot or anything you know when
you come on camera you've got to have
something to say and I've got to say
that's the most fundamental you know
flaw and Charles's formula he's coming
on camera and he has nothing to say and
not even about something is easy to talk
about as like
during Ryder and his legacy it's not
like you got to do research to talk a
good game about that you know I think I
think he really got on the wrong road as
soon as he stopped keeping it real
he made a transition at one point from
reporting the news to inventing the news
you know I noticed exactly when it was I
mean I saw I was in contact in that day
and then from there on it was a moral
downward spiral and you know to what
extent does he even know who he is
anymore or who he's supposed to be to
what extent is he portraying a fictional
character and to what extent is the
artistry ality based on the private
email of had with him yes he does seem
to be insane you know I'm just being
honest with you you know honestly like
to give you an example so you know I
have a job here in China like you know I
live on a university campus in China
where I teach classes University and
that's really obvious but when I was
back here teaching in China he sent me
an email where he was like in like
seriously not jokingly saying to me that
he knew for a fact I was still in Chiang
Mai like I was still like in hiding in
Thailand like causing drama or causing
conflict of [ __ ] like dude so I I'm now
a 39 year old man in a in a gray suit
for real like I'm not a high school
student you know you think I'm living
and hiding in Thailand just to cause
drama really like yeah there's so much
wrong there but this is obviously a
trivial example but the extent to which
he's kind of making things up in his own
mind and playing games and losing touch
with reality mmm from my perspective as
someone who's known him for a relatively
long time and of you know talked to him
privately as well as publicly
yeah I'd say I'd say insanity is part of
the is part of the problem and like
don't forget like so look so quest you
know YouTube hasn't destroyed your life
yet but this guy this guy dropped out of
college for YouTube there's another
great example is a youtuber called
Caitlin shoemaker dropped out of her MA
program you know once you're in that
deep once you believe that this is gonna
pay your rent you know you drop out
real damage those are real consequences
to live with nobody did it to him you
know he did it to himself but sure if he
wasn't crazy to begin with that sense of
his own failure of his own squandered
potential he dude had Talent dude could
sing dude could play guitar dude was
charming and at one point he was loved I
can remember when he was loved not hated
I can remember when everyone supported
him when everyone just wanted him to get
better whenever we just wanted to
recover from his drug addiction was
nothing but positive support and you
know he's got nobody to blame but
himself sure I mean sorry different
story in each case mmm but you know I've
been in this game long enough the
different people go through different
phases in their lives like some people
stop talking you just cuz they have a
new boyfriend or new girlfriend some
people stop talking you because they
have a new job one person I'm friends
with stop talking to me because he or
she got a new religion convert to new
religion and you know in some cases I
don't hear why they disappeared or I
only find out years later or something
but now I mean my doors open to all
those people basically you know and I do
I mean I do still talk to Richard but
you know Richard Knight vegan gains we
don't have that much in common so you
know like I'm happy to talk to him but
you know I don't play video games I'm
not into the same stuff he's into so
it's not you know but obviously someone
you know is more positive than negative
for the future the movement I noticed he
just had another video whipping out a
gun and pointing the gun threatening to
shoot people in the head you know
there's some aspects of his act I don't
support it don't sympathize with you
know what you're not so but still
nevertheless you know but no I I just
say you know I say this for myself
you know so critically - I think this is
true of a lot of people are on the tube
you know I'm looking to replace you know
a lost family I'm looking to replace
what my family failed to provide me with
what high school and university all
failed to provide me with I should have
come out of high school with a circle of
friends that last for life I should have
come out of university with a circle
friends the last wife I didn't you know
I don't have that and I'm looking for
quality people just to be a part of my
life in whatever way they can you know I
mean like I'm not I don't need a lot
from peer but yeah and that's why you
know it does bother me like to give an
example Jake Eames
when I was last in in Chiangmai well no
sorry not last so a couple times ago
over a year ago when I was in Chiang Mai
so I've been I've been back to Chiang
Mai since then but well when I was in
Chiang Mai - having the face of Dermer
there was this guy there Jake Eames you
know and I don't know why he disappeared
I assume it's because he tried to buckle
down and work on his job care more about
his job as education and that's just my
assumption but sometimes you know people
disappear and it's like whoa you know I
thought we were going to be colleagues
in the movement I thought would really
be organizing and instigating stuff for
veganism and now you've ghosted so sure
I'm disappointed that way but normally
there there are reasons and very often
they're positive reasons very often it
is new girlfriend new job you know they
got something better to do then come on
YouTube and talk about their feelings
maybe this will happen to you one day
you know you know it's art it's an
online friendship because
you don't really know you know sure look
I agree and I mean you can have the same
problem in real life too knowing people
face-to-face and not really knowing them
but I mean look you know stupidity is
real insanity is real and there's no
doubt in veganism you deal with more
than your fair share of people who are
either stupid or insane or both you know
that's real and you know I mean I've
spent time in elite institutions I was
at you know Cambridge and Oxford
University in England because my ex-wife
was getting her PhD there and I
presented some papers I presented some
research and went to some events and
conferences you know at those elite
universities the average level of
intelligence of the people with PhDs I'd
say was lower than like my fellow high
school students when I was in high
school and the percentage of them that's
that are insane is higher than you I
felt by school 30,000 at school let you
look around a classroom and a PhD
program a lot of people are stupid a lot
of people are crazy so I can't I can't
front on it too much
yeah and veganism sometimes it burns me
that I got to deal with so many people
who are insane or stupid or a
combination of the two but like let me
tell you the ph.d program and
anthropology at Cambridge a bunch of
[ __ ] idiots and crackpots like you
know what this is you know this is my
experience when you're in elite
situations and you think wow very few
people here are like mentally competent
and have their act together and that's
been my experience in life in a lot of
different fields so I can't hate on
vegans too much but I can advise my
fellow vegans you got to protect
yourself you got to think about that you
know every everybody you're dealing with
in this in this scene in this game they
can be really pernicious they can be
really crazy they can literally create
fake nude photographs of you and post
them on the Internet just to get
attention like you know like yeah like
this is this I know I know like this is
the stuff that goes on and it's like you
know I am NOT I am NOT Kanye West like
I'm not really famous enough to justify
this kind of behavior but yeah that's
that's what goes on
so a couple senses there I couldn't hear
do you want to say again or type sorry
what about your sunshine are you a fan
of him uh no and he hates my guts
actually so yeah I made a video ages ago
called use soap
you idiots and I think the subtitle is
why I hate vegans still a great video
but about soap so maybe you've heard of
the you know bacterial theory of disease
it's more than just a theory at this
point you know the existence of bacteria
and its relationship to human illness is
now much much better proven than the
theory of evolution of the theory that
the earth is spherical rather than flat
and so on this is a well proven theory
but Jonas sunshine is in the tiny
minority of people who do not believe
that washing your hands with soap is in
any way related to disease and I pushed
him on this I said so you do not believe
if you go to a surgeon do you expect the
surgeon to wash the the scalpel with
soap but do you believe that you know if
you believe you can get sick from a
dirty knife figures the surgery do you
expect surgeons to wash their heads and
watch the surgical intimates see yeah
he's he's a crackpot on that side and he
he was sending me links to these really
you know horribly disproven just not
credible
you know doctors who don't believe in
soap and don't believe in the existence
of bacteria and these same people you
know don't believe that hiv/aids exists
they believe it was a conspiracy made up
by the government this kind of crap
unbelievable nonsense so you know I
didn't even like argue with him I
remember he sent me this link and I just
googled the the resume of the the doctor
or the medical expert who exposed the
sores the division
I was just sitting there reading out to
him the history of this you know the
best source he had supporting his point
of view and he went nuts so yeah I mean
that's that's a test in general in life
you know the fragility of your own views
the fragility of your beliefs the
fragility of your position have you want
to put it but you know if you can't if
you can't take if you can't you know
give and take a discussion that way if
you freak out when someone just says
okay well let's look at your sources
let's look at why you believe that
you know it's a sign you really need to
reevaluate you know what your position
is or what your assumptions are but yeah
it's it's pretty it's pretty sad so no
and usually I look bottom line is he is
he crazy or is he saying is he brilliant
or is he stupid I could ask you a much
simpler question is he gonna do anything
positive for the vegan movement in the
next five years my answer is no so
therefore you know I write him out for
that reason either could be so positive
or you're not